Intro
-----

Using firstboot, an administrative user can  configure the system (before creation
of the install image) such that on first boot after configuration, the
system owner is prompted for various items to personalize the system.

When the machine boots for the first time after the installation, you will be
presented with an interface for doing some additional configuration.

The default workflow for such an interface is:

1. The Welcome screen
2. The License Agreement
3. Date & Time
4. Root Password
5. User Account
6. Finish


During firstboot, 2 additional dialogs are shown for writing the data and
running SuSEconfig which require no user interaction.


Enabling firstboot
------------------


Firstboot is disabled by default. the package yast2-firstboot is not part of
any software selection and has to be installed individually.

After the package is installed, the following has to be done to activate it
during the next boot:

1. Touch the file /etc/reconfig_system
2. Enable the service firstboot using the YaST runlevel editor or
   directly on the command line with 
   
    chkconfig firstboot on


The Post Configuration Utility (firstboot) expects the X server to be
configured. If no X server is configured, then it will start in text mode
automatically.




Customizing YaST firstboot
--------------------------

The utility has standard and translated texts in the default setup. If the 
administrative user wishes to change those texts, it is possible using the
firstboot configuration file: /etc/sysconfig/firstboot

This file allows changing the text of the following dialogs:

- Welcome Screen
- License Agreement
- Finish Dialog


Changing the values of the respective variables to a full path of a plain or
rich text formatted text file, will result in the dialogs with a customized
text.
If the referenced files are in plain text, they will be shown as such
automatically. If they contain any markup language, they will be formatted as
richtext.



Scripting
-----------


The administrative user can add scripts to be executed at the end of the
firstboot configuration to customize the system depending on user input or
depending on the environment of the machine. Any scripts should go to

    /usr/share/firstboot/scripts

or to a custom location that can be set using /etc/sysconfig/firstboot.



